.\" -*-Nroff-*-
.\""
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\""
.TH XINE-REMOTE 1 2002-04-16 "The xine project"
.SH NAME
xine-remote \- a small tool to connect xine remote control server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xine-remote
.I "[options]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR xine-remote
tool.
.PP
.B xine-remote
can replace a \fIraw\fP telnet connection to a xine remote control server. It use the \fBreadline\fP facilities (completion, vi/emacs shortcuts, command history, etc...).
By default, it try to connect the localhost, using the default port (see \fIxine\fP(1)).
.SH OPTIONS
The program follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
ioptions starting with two dashes (\`\-\').
A summary of options are included below.
.TP
.BR \-H,\ \-\-host\  <hostname>
Try to connect <\fBhostname\fP>.
.TP
.BR \-P,\ \-\-port\  <port>
Try to connect the host using <\fBport\fP>.
.TP
.BR \-c,\ \-\-command\  <command>
Send <\fBcommand\fP> to server then quit.
The command should be single quoted if it contain
spaces or special characters.
.TP
.BR \-n,\ \-\-noconnect
Do not initiate the connection on startup.
.TP
.BR \-v,\ \-\-version
Display version.
.TP
.BR \-h,\ \-\-help
Display options summary.
.br
.SH COMMANDS
Few commands are available, which are used to open or close a connection:
.TP
.B ?
Display available commands (the xine-remote ones + server ones when connection is established).
.TP
.BR help\  <command>
Display the purpose of <\fBcommand\fP>, if that is omitted, display available commands.
.TP
.BR syntax\  <command>
Display the usage of <\fBcommand\fP>.
.TP
.B version
Display version.
.TP
.BR open\  <server[:port]>
Open connection to \fBserver\fP. A \fBport\fP can be optionally specified, using colon (\fB:\fP) separator.
.TP
.B close
Close connection.
.TP
.B quit
Leaving xine-remote.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xine (1).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Daniel Caujolle-Bert <f1rmb@users.sourceforge.net> for the xine project.
